So, let's talk about creating that
high fidelity mockup for a moment.
So, there are there are various
ways of going about this.
But what the one little thing that I would
say that you wanna keep in mind is that
you do wanna pass this via developer
before you show it to the client right.
And get their feedback and
their thoughts on it.
And as well, I will say, as you
are creating your high fidelity mockups.
If you are not gonna be
the person building it,
I would highly recommend that as you
build it in something like Figma sketch,
you keep the developer in mind, right?
I know I'm speaking to the converted here,
because I know that vast majority of
people that will watch this video
are actually developers as well.
But one of the great things
about tools like Figma and
Sketch these days is they've got really
powerful developer tools if you use them.
So just by way of example,
In things like Figma and Sketch,
use their components and
styles in there, right?
Don't set the font every size.
Don't pick the color every time you'll end
up picking slightly different colors and
slightly different fonts but
instead create a library.
So that there is consistency for
the developer when they come
to do this kind of work.
Also another more recent tool that's
began to emerge is auto-layout
features it's particularly
strong in Figma.
So instead of positioning
all your elements by eye,
all that looks about right.
Have a robust underlying layout system and
then use auto layout
to position elements rather than
just dragging it around to design.
It's gonna make it so
much easier when it comes to the build for
developers because they can just look at
this has got this amount of padding or
this amount of margin
without having to go well.
On that side, you've got 13 pixels because
you've just kind of positioned it by eye.
And at the bottom, it's eight pixels and
it's all a little bit out and
they have to kind of create rules around
this stuff do it for them use auto layout.
So I just wanted to say a couple
of little things around that and
think of won't anybody think of
the developer because they're the ones
that have to pick up your horrible mess.
Name your layers kids,
as well that's another big one
that often gets overlooked.
Anyway, I digress.
Let's talk about quickly to
sanity checking your mockups.
So I mean,
we've done a lot of testing already, and
I don't wanna make it any more
complicated for you guys,
cuz I know time is often limited when
it comes to doing this kinda thing.
But there is one little glorious tool that
is worth its weight in gold right, and
it's called a tension insight.
And what you can do is you can
take your Figma mockup of a page.
And you can do I upload
it to this website and
it's dirt cheap I think it's about
$18 a month or something like that.
It's not very expensive and
it's worth it you'll see why in a minute.
You upload your design to it.
Now it takes hundreds and hundreds of
hours of eye tracking studies to predict
with machine learning where people
are gonna look at your design right.
And this clients lapped this stuff up,
[LAUGH] It's only I think of it as
a spell checker for for a designer.
So it's okay to ignore some of it
what it shows you because it's
It's not always a 100% right.
But, it will give you a heat map,
that will show you where people
will look on the page, okay?
With a 90 plus degree of accuracy, right?
Percent degree of accuracy.
So you can then show this to your
clients and you can prove to them that,
if the person is facing in this direction,
they're actually seeing
the call to action.
But if I replace that image with
the rubbish when you suggested,
then they won't see the call to action.
You've got evidence to back
up your design decision.
And it cuts through so
many arguments I cannot express it,
you show them this and they'll shut up.
So yeah, check that out as
it's a really useful tool.
Now oftentimes,
it's enough to stop at this point, right?
You've got your design mockups, you've got
a grayscale wireframes you've got evidence
to support both of those, it could
easily move on to presentation time now.
But it might be that you wanna go ahead
and create a high fidelity prototype.
So that's instead of it being
a single mockup of one page,
you're creating an interactive
experience from end to end.
Now this depends on the size of
the project and its complexity and
stuff like that but
it can be a good way of working.
But in my opinion,
there is very little point of creating
a high fidelity prototype of the whole
thing, unless you're gonna use it for
testing purposes, right?
Really, the wireframes should be enough
for a developer to be able to see
all the different functionality that
the mockup is gonna be enough for,
to set the aesthetics and stuff like that.
So I only do a high fidelity prototype
if you wanna do lots of testing.
And if you are gonna be testing,
we're talking about things like remote
usability testing most of the time here.
Testing a prototype with a small number,
probably no more than six people to see
if they can complete critical tasks.
You can normally get away with
carrying that out just over Zoom.
There are specialist
tools if you want them.
And then there's also some
unfacilitated usability testing,
where you're gonna test the prototype
with larger numbers of users.
By asking them to complete critical tasks,
and
then you're gonna watch back
the sessions afterwards right?
They're both valid approaches in the first
approaches when you're one to one and
talking to people, you can ask a lot
of questions, which is really good.
But if you want large numbers of people,
you don't wanna be able to sit in through
every single one of those sessions, so
instead you do unfamiliar,
facilitated usability testing.
Again there's some great tools out
there for doing that kind of thing.
Things like Lookback Maze
will help with that.
So let's just do a quick checklist on your
kind of design and prototyping phase.
What you need to keep in your mind and
then we shall move on and
start talking about presenting.
So first of all, identify and
draft your content.
So don't start with the design
start with your content.
Run card sorting to help you
create your site hierarchy and
stop your client putting stupid
jargon in navigation and
making there too many top level
sections and all that kind of stuff.
Create your wireframes at least for
critical pages and
interlink those pages together into an
interactive experience which you can then
to lightweight testing on.
Then produce your style tiles based
on those agreed keywords and again,
do that very lightweight testing.
And then bring your aesthetics and
wireframing together into a prototype or
a mockup so
we can see the complete package.
And then just do a little bit of sanity
checking on that final design using that
attention's insight tools.
Or do some last round usability testing,
if you've got the budget to do that.
So that's a little bit about
the process that I personally use for
creating design I'm not saying
it's the only way of doing it but
it's the one that I find manages and
controls the design process the most.